Preparation {#ChaPreparation}
===========
\tableofcontents

This chapter describes how to get fbdbg working on your system.


Source {#SecSource}
======

The FreeBASIC debugger source code is located at
[fbdebugger](https://github.com/fbdebugger/fbdebugger). You need the
[GIT version control
system](https://git.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Installation) installed
on your system in order to download the source tree.

Once you get GIT working, go to the folder where you want the
source tree of fbdebugger to be installed and type

~~~{.sh}
cd /folder/to/location
git clone https://github.com/fbdebugger/fbdebugger.git
~~~

You'll get a new subfolder named fbdebugger containing the source code,
the documentation texts and auxiliary files (there's no executable).


Build system {#SecBuild}
============

The build system is based on [CMake](http://www.cmake.org). It supports
in-source and out-of-source builds. The later is recommended, in order
to keep the source tree clean and allow multiple builds in separate
build trees without interferences to the other build trees (no need for
clearing the build tree for a different build target).

In order to create your build tree, first create a new folder for that
tree and change to that folder. Then let CMake generate the makefiles
(the example assumes that you start from the directory where you
executed the git command from section \ref SecSource)

~~~{.sh}
mkdir fbdbg_build
cd fbdbg_build
cmake ../fbdbg
~~~

You'll find a bunch of directories and files generated by CMake, or
copied from the source tree (necessary to test the executable in the
build tree).

Now, several make targets are available in the build tree

- \ref SubSecMakeAll
- \ref SubSecMakeInstall
- \ref SubSecMakePot
- \ref SubSecMakeDoc
- \ref SubSecMakePackage

\note Some of the targets may not be available, due to missing tools on
      your system. Find that information in the output of the above
      commands. Section \ref SecTools explains the purpose of the tools
      and how to install them.


all (= default) {#SubSecMakeAll}
---------------

To compile the source and generate an executable, execute

~~~{.sh}
make
~~~

That creates the executable in the fbdbg_build folder, which you can
start and test.

\note This target needs the FreeBASIC compiler and the GTK+ development
      libraries to be installed on your system.


install {#SubSecMakeInstall}
-------

This target installs the executable and all auxiliary files on you
system. Just type

~~~{.sh}
sudo make install
~~~


pot {#SubSecMakePot}
---

This target re-creates the file src/fbdbg.pot containing all strings
for the translators. It scans the FB source code and the GUI
description files (*.ui) and extracts the translatable string contexts.
Translators use this file to update their translation files in order to
update them.

~~~{.sh}
make pot
~~~

This file is independant from any build target, and therefor gets
created in the source tree.

\note This target needs xgettext to be installed on your system.


doc {#SubSecMakeDoc}
---

This target creates the documentation in form of a html tree and a
directory of LaTeX files. Both folders are is independant from any
build target, and therefor get created in the source tree.

~~~{.sh}
sudo make install
~~~

The html tree is ready for use, just load the file doc/html/index.html
in to your browser.

\note This target needs Doxygen, graphviz and fb-doc to be installed on
      your system.

\todo The doc/latex folder contains a makefile, just execute the `make`
command in the folder to use pdftex for creating the file refman.pdf.

\note Creating the pdf file needs LaTeX to be installed on your system.


package {#SubSecMakePackage}
-------

This target creates the ???


Tools {#SecTools}
=====

Find information about the tools used in the above make targets in this
section.


...
